So it's a small house after all because Alex and family are back from London. How are you doing Alex?
Well Chris, I'm tired
I bet
It's a different side of the world Alex. Yeah, I don't know like this week
I just haven't been able to get back back into the groove like I went back to work on Monday like a normal person and
somehow, it's Wednesday night and I'm still tired like
Typically I find jet lag about an hour a day
And you're about right and it's you know, we flew back on Saturday. I should be I should be good about now
I'm recalling that the night you arrived you said oh going east is easy
West I guess I screwed that up
I think the trouble with going east is from America at least all the flights across the Atlantic
Pretty much are red eye flights
And so you lose not only the night of good sleep
But then you also get to your destination at 7 a.m. And then you have to stay awake
All day on top of no sleep. Yeah, man. So we're all friends here
Is it easier harder having Brent there when you get back? Hey now. Oh, it's lovely because
Yeah, the fridge is stocked and you know
Loads of little things like the house feels like it's been lived in
The dog's happy, you know
Whenever you go away like there's inevitably something you forget like you forget to take out the rubbish or something and you come back
And it's a stinky bin
Nothing like that. It's all good. Yeah, that is nice
That is nice. It's handy having a Brent around right? Yeah, and I think Archie had a good time, too
Oh, he had a great time. Yeah, he he took care of me more than I took care of him
I think I got lots of good videos. Ah, I know you came in handy when those thunderstorms swirled around so
Oh, yeah
Hey now did the pair of you see that the excel the world excel championships are currently live on espn2
Right now is this excel like spreadsheets or is this excel like oh, yes, my goodness link in the chat link in discord
No, no, no, no, no, really. What do they do?
You're not kidding competitive excel formula writing I am not joking. This is a real sport. Oh my goodness
This is so good
Oh, this is so good. No python allowed. Is that it?
Well this tournament for a one-of-a-kind sport pits the best against the best
As eight experts try to solve original tasks about lottery answers
And the goal is to answer as many questions as possible in a limited amount of time
We should do this but like with linux and free software projects and like open source projects and self-hosting trivia
Now you're talking we could do this. This could be fun
We should definitely have a self-hosted or linux kind of trivia night. I know I threatened it at the denver meetup last year
But how about we make something happen?
At the jpl meetup. Oh
Oh
Oh speaking of which just a little early plug in the show self-hosted dot show slash jpl
If you're in the southern california area and you want to put your name in the hat for the jpl tour
That's where you go. But please make sure you can actually make it self-hosted dot show slash jpl
I have been
Just sitting here waiting for this episode. I wanted to hear brent's opinions
Of what it's like to live in your house after you have automated everything because you have built that entire system to fit your
Needs your family's needs, right? You didn't build it for brent's needs
And for a little while after you left, I don't think brent had access to the dashboard or anything like that
So he just lived with the automations
As they were so I thought it'd be really fun today
to get in to just find out what that's like to live with another man's automations another man's home assistant and
then kind of get a review from a third-party perspective on your setup and then also later in the show I got a
shelly
humidity and temperature sensor and I got one of their power plugs
And I have them running right now and I want to share my thoughts
On that stuff. But what do you guys say? We jump into brent's impressions of living with your assistant alex because
I was actually really interested when brent stayed with us in the rv. What his experience was like, but
One of the things that I did. I don't think you had time for just because of circumstances
Was when the first night brent stayed with us. I gave him a little tour
Of the system to kind of show him how to control it where the where the tablets were at
But you guys basically had like a meet and greet in the in the airport and then it was like, yeah two planes in the night
passing
That was not the original plan how many hours delayed were you like 19 or something? Yeah
Yeah, I had to do an overnight and all hotel and all the whole thing. So
Anyways, we met on the security side of the airport. That was fun. I haven't done that before
but luckily I uh because of the raleigh meetup that we did here I did have some experience with the
Automations and chris. I know you also had some experiences here. We all did and alex was kind of showcasing them at the time
Um because it was the first time any of us had seen sort of everything he set up in the new house
And I followed some of it with the show as well
You know like alex and I have talked about some of it on the show
So I kind of when I arrived at alex's house
I pretty much knew what to expect
Right away because it's something he and I kind of talk about more frequently than probably I would imagine the two of you do
It's true. I'm relatively new to uh home assistant home automation stuff
But I uh, thanks to you chris. I do have nimble fingers around trying to operate some of it as an outside user
This is an interesting question. Did much of it change from last time I was here to this time. No, I don't think so
Okay, good. That was going to be my answer. So I had some patterns in mind. I know that
Alex and cat have certain
Routines that they set off
One of them even when I visited them years ago in their old place was their like good night routine and uh, sort of
The bedtime countdown and all the lights would sort of dim down a little bit
And I kind of missed that when you were gone because I a didn't know how to set that off
and b like
I didn't know even know where to start looking for like random switches or physical
Uh enablements to make that happen. And uh, so I just lived with that
But so sad. I think I need to improve my documentation, huh?
That's the first thing to go out of date typically
So I used to do the bedtime routine through a google home with a hey tube, please
Uh, what what did I say? I think I just said bedtime
Yeah, something like that. That's what you used when I stayed with you. Uh, but now I have the ikea trad free buttons
I have one of these next to my uh bed, you know just in the bedroom
And when I want to shut the house down, I just press the button and it starts the uh, it shuts down
I think it turns off all the lights. It sets the ac to uh, you know
A slightly warmer temperature overnight to save me a bit of money
It turns off all the outdoor lights
Turns off several smart plugs as well as like the garage door openers ensures the garage doors are shut that kind of thing. Okay
Very nice and I have something very similar at home as well. We have uh
Uh kid bedtime, which is a kind of reduced version of that
That just gets everything shut down for the kids and then we have what I call
Last call and and I picked a name that wasn't good night because some of the smart assistants
Actually have like a predefined response for good night
Yeah
So I did last call for mine and that's just a script in home assistant
It does pretty much similar to what alex said except for the garage doors
I don't have those but it does turn cameras on shuts lights off. It turns on white noise makers
It sets thermostats to certain temperatures and all of that kind of stuff and it does like alex does as well
It does a cascade shutdown. So
Things kind of selectively turn off in order so it gets darker in stages over a 15 minute period
The other thing I have I think at night is I think it's 2 30 am or something. I have a hard cutoff
It is i've experienced it because I I mean, you know, i've got kids now
I'm a kid singular. I don't stay up that because she's up at six, you know, so
2 30 am it hard turns off all the smart switches all the lights everything just as a catch-all in case anything didn't execute it
at bedtime
yeah, that tripped me up a few nights when I was
Let's just say staying
Staying on mountain time despite being in eastern time mountain time from what I guess from alex from what you're describing
It seems to me like that would be a really common
button or automation that
Would have the most actions to it
It sounds like chris you tons of stuff happens for you and alex tons of stuff happens for you at that time of day
And I would assume any other time of day doesn't quite have that much stuff going on. It sounds like a lot
But really all it's doing is turning off a couple of light groups and a couple of switch groups
Because that you know, I have have everything grouped together. So it's really I mean
I've added i've given it a lot of thoughts about what lives in which group but actually in terms of the number of steps
There's a few timers and stuff in there too. But I mean, it's actually it's actually quite simple
So the modular logic to it all makes it actually quite simple nice
Yeah, depending on how you add groups and whatnot and I also have like some delays in there
So one group will go off and then like a 10 minute timer goes for some stuff
Uh, that's where it kind of gets a little weird, but that's just preference, you know, what I did learn last night
however, is that uh
Alex alluded that he and his wife katherine each have a button and they accomplish slightly different tasks
Do you want to did you describe that? Do you want to make sure that's clear? Do we oh, yeah
I thought you did there was like a we do. Oh, sorry
I was sure you did you have like a soft good night and then a no. All right. All right. We tried that and it was just
like chaos
Because what happens if I go to bed first
Well, I was gonna say that's what happened when we started watching rupaul's drag race
Uh, you see so all that happens is I just push the bedtime button without thinking and because it's habit
I go to bed. I push that button. So what I really need is a soft
You know, just turn on my bedside light
You know button and leave the rest of the house alone button
I I think that really brings me to a nice segue which is that
Having a brent in your home is a good way to find like little bugs in your automations
Like that's that's a simple one, but here I am in england enjoying my sister's wedding
And i've got a text from brent saying your kitchen lights aren't turning on bro
Well, the other thing that's going to happen that'll force you to adjust this is you're going to have to create like a kid bedtime
Automations like I have right? I have a partial kind of a soft bedtime for the kids
Which which for me right? That's just shutting down the first half of the rv
But leaving the back half of the rv still online, but for you it's going to be a lot more complicated
I think as well that this speaks to a good point about home automation in general
Lately i've really struggled to find it interesting because
There are so many edge cases that you have to consider
And the entropy of stuff just breaking a good example of these bluetooth low energy temperature sensors that I have the xiaomi
I forget the name of them. You know, they're made by xiaomi. Anyway, yep, they just drop off the network
They just drop off bluetooth
Even though the esp 32 is still online because I can ping the damn thing and I can log into it still there
stuff just breaks which doesn't quite work 100 reliably and
I don't know. I'm getting a bit fatigued with it
No, I understand too because when a temperature sensor breaks a bunch of other crap breaks and that's really annoying
So it's a bit of a domino effect then I will say i'm going to get to this one and we get to the shelly stuff
Wi-fi z-waver zigbee only for me from now on because of this very reason
And nothing battery powered when it comes to sensors where I want a lot of data from
You know just to kind of circle back to the original idea I had here for just kind of picking brent's brain on this
I'm curious what you thought worked well brent
We kind of got an idea of what maybe didn't work, but i'm curious what you were impressed by or you thought was nice
While you were staying there, you know, it's it's actually a difficult question to answer because the the things that work nicely
You just sort of forget
If you're not noticing it means that it's working
Which is kind of fascinating speaking of the kitchen lights then so I have an automation based on a uh, I think it's a hue
Zigbee motion sensor that talks to my conby 2
It's attached to the lights if it's got a magnetic back to it and it's angled such that it picks up both
Oh, actually all three entry points to my kitchen
If you're sat at the dinner table for more than about 10 minutes
Still which with a toddler does not happen
The lights will turn off and so my time out was you know, I think it was seven minutes actually not 10
So the first few days I get a message from brent saying your kitchen lights keep turning off
On me or they're not the motion sensor isn't picking me up properly. Yeah here
I am having a nice peaceful dinner being my wonderfully cooked meal and the lights keep turning off on me
so I adjusted the time out to 25 minutes just
Thinking that was the longest possible time a human could spend eating dinner
No, not brent. How did that work out for you in the end? I'm curious, you know for like a sit down at the table dinner
Which um for you is over pretty quickly
But for me was obviously the need for the change, uh, that was totally great. Um, where it changed was
I've discovered that really cozy chair that you have in the kitchen. It's like a lounge chair. Yeah, one of those ikea
Chairs, so archie and I would often like curl up there during thunderstorms and so right
But the lights would go out and actually that was a feature I think so
I didn't ask you to change it
Right brent can be a still man for a prolonged period of time
But isn't this this is exactly what I was talking about you guys like you build something for yourself and then somebody comes along
Who just doesn't live the way you live?
And they find the edge cases and I just find that just fascinating. Yeah, it's a difference in behavior
And alex was kind enough to hand me a login to the interface to make some changes
But I was too scared to change things in there because I feel like if he if he's that way about his desk chair
Who knows how he is about his home assistant. He's got a lot of stuff
Chair, who knows how he is about his home assistant. He's got backups of his config
He doesn't have backups of the physical chair. He wants me to test the backups. Does he I do?
Uh, what do they call that uh in enterprise disaster recovery
You are the disaster. Oh, thank you. I need a t-shirt
Uh, but chris to answer your original question, I would say a lot of the lights worked really well
Alex as you know has a bunch of mood lights in this particular room where we are which is kind of you call it
Your bonus room, but it's kind of the lounge or the tinkering
You know your desk is there where you do a lot of your tinkering and that's where we are right now
and it's kind of this mood lighting that is
Just I never thought of except about 2 30 in the morning when it all turned off
But other than that which was most of the time it was just perfect and I didn't have to think about it
And it was just right for the time of day. I thought that was really great and really added to the room
I'm quite proud of the lighting in this room in particular because it's based off of the elevation of the sun
Rather than time of day or anything like that. So as the sun's elevation in the sky changes throughout the year
So does the uh, I guess the light turn on off time. Yeah. Okay, that's great
That's really neat. What gave you that idea?
I think just a forum post. I wish I could I wish I could take credit
But I love that you can even do that really let's be honest. Yeah, one thing i'd like to do
I've and if any listeners have an idea i've got a a skylight behind me here and it's got a proprietary
Velux shade on it
And I leave it open about two or three inches because during the day the sun blasts through that because it's a south-facing roof
And it would just discolor my drums and get them hot and you know instruments are quite sensitive
So what i'd love is during the day whilst the sun is beating down for that thing to be
You know in its daytime position almost all the way down
And then of an evening open it right up once the sun's done doing its thing for the day
I'm tempted to take apart the remote that I have the velux remote. It's uh, some kind of wireless thing
I don't know what protocol it uses, but apparently it does rolling encryption
So you can't just sniff it with 433 or something like that
Uh, so what i'm tempted to do is get an esp device and kind of solder a couple of leads on and have that
Kind of fake button pushes, but I don't want to break the only remote that I have
For the thing. I wonder if you could get
Like a replacement remote a second remote that one to play with and one to be, you know your production remote
Yeah, if anybody has any experience with those velux remotes, i'd love to hear from you self-hosted dot show slash contact
Humio dot com slash h c e go there to get all of your logs in one place
Humio is a centralized log management and observability platform
The company was founded by developers in denmark in 2016 as an alternative to the legacy logging solutions that I tried back in my day
They're just cost prohibitive and unbelievable in scale and size
I think the real beauty of humio is that it can take logs from any source and then it makes them usable
You don't have to sit there and constantly massage the format. It doesn't need a schema
You just pump them all in there. And then when you need them the dashboard helps you get sense of it. I
Cannot underscore this enough back in my day when I was in it
Specifically in banking where we had to audit our firewall logs constantly. I am not kidding you
We spent a month training the system on what to look for
That's how wild these things are. So what we did was we took our firewall logs
And we looked at all of these different ways that we can get our data out of this system
So that's how wild these things are. So what humio is doing is crazy
It's index free architecture means you can ingest over a petabyte of data per day and then search that with sub
second
Latency and humio is up to 80 cheaper than competing platforms like Splunk or elastic thanks to its reduced hardware footprint
is the largest no-cost data ingestion offering
on the market today,
allowing you to ingest up to 16 gigs per day
with seven days of retention.
It's not a trial period.
You get that for the long haul.
How useful could that be when you're troubleshooting
or monitoring your system
or bringing everything together in one place?
It's perfect for self-hosters
who just want to ingest all those logs
and then view it on a dashboard.
You gotta go try Humio right now
to see what I'm talking about
and get that community edition for the long haul.
So to do that, you go to humio.com slash H-C-E.
When it's your hobby, you want it easy.
You want it quick and you want it usable.
You don't want it to be a job.
You want to be able to get to the bottom of things
and having that all in one dashboard is beautiful.
And of course, you can get metrics from Home Assistant.
So go get started with Humio Community Edition
right now for free at humio.com slash H-C-E.
That's humio.com slash H-C-E.
Now, I was hoping to take a moment in the show
just to reach out to friend of the show, Jeff Geerling.
He posted a video on his YouTube channel today
about his Crohn's disease.
For those of you that don't know,
Jeff suffers from Crohn's disease,
which is quite debilitating disease
of the intestine and gut sort of area.
He hasn't been very well lately
and his latest video says he's gonna drop
from weekly to bi-weekly uploads of videos,
that kind of thing.
At this time, I don't really know what I can do
to help with that other than get you lot
to message him on Twitter with kind words of encouragement
to say we're all thinking of you
and hope that you make it through.
Yeah, I'm very sorry to hear that.
Get well, Jeff.
The challenge when you are running your own business
and trying to do your own media empire like Jeff has,
you are kind of the star of the show.
And when you have health issues,
it just knocks things out of whack
and it takes you off the air.
So I know how rough that can be, Jeff.
So all my best.
Gentlemen, will you entertain me for a moment?
I'd love to tell you about some new Shelly devices
that I have received.
Oh, that's not, I'm doing jazz hands.
That's not what you meant.
Oh, I mean, actually that's quite entertaining.
I'm very entertaining.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
So you guys know I have been on a trek
to look at what I'm gonna replace in my setup
when I redo Home Assistant and redo my Z-Wave
and maybe set up some ZigBay
and get rid of my Home Assistant stuff.
And I have been really intrigued for a long time
by the Shelly stuff
since you first talked about it on the show, Alex.
It just seems like such a slam dunk.
And recently I talked about their temperature sensor
and the temperature sensor is really, really great
because it has an e-ink display on it
and it will give you the temperature
and the humidity of the room right there
on the e-ink display.
And that, guys, that sold me and it's Wi-Fi
so I don't gotta mess around with ZigBay or Z-Wave
because I still, I don't know why,
but I'm still waiting for matter.
I know, I know, I know.
So I wanna just go for Wi-Fi if I can
and start replacing my Z-Wave devices with Wi-Fi devices.
And the number one device,
the number one device that I have on Z-Wave
is my Aotec 7-in-1 or 6-in-1 sensor,
which is still chef's kiss the best sensor out there.
But I wanna replace Z-Wave devices with Wi-Fi devices
and the Shelly H&T sensor, humidity and temperature sensor,
seem like the way to go.
E-ink display seems great.
It has USB-C for power.
So you can supply always on power.
You don't have to use battery.
As probably a lot of you know traditionally,
that means that if you can give USB power
to one of these IOT devices,
they will send continuous data.
And if they're on battery,
they have, maybe they'll wake up
when a certain threshold is reached.
Maybe they wake up when a certain time threshold
has been reached, right?
There's different things that can cause them to wake up,
but they don't continuously report.
And so for me, like I have temperature sensors
in my battery bay,
but I need to monitor in real time right away.
I can't wait an hour to get a temperature update.
I need to know right now.
So anything that can be powered continuously
is a win for me.
And the Shelly H&T sensor absolutely can.
However, I have to let you know some bad news.
Even when you have it plugged in over USB,
sleep is still required
because the CPU heat throws off the temperature readings.
And so the hardware has to go in sleep mode
to try to get the temperature setting,
or reading, I should say, as accurate as possible.
That is a real shame.
And do we know how long this sleep has to be?
It's enough that it disconnects completely
from Home Assistant and becomes a dead sensor.
And it's a display.
That's just no good.
Yeah, if you don't want continuous data
and you're okay using MQTT
to kind of send it when it is alive,
so that way Home Assistant doesn't freak out
every time it disappears, it'll work.
Now, I can't help with the e-ink side of this thing,
but I mean, it looks beautiful, but first of all, $40?
That's expensive for something
that has this kind of a flaw in it.
And when I look at it, I look at this and I think,
well, you know, just use an ESP8266
and a $5 sensor from China.
I've been using one in my basement
and one in my attic for the last three, four years.
A generous listener even sent me one.
You are absolutely right.
And that is what I should do.
I know that, but I don't know what it is, Alex.
Like, I just, I can't accept it
that that has to be the answer.
For this to ever get any kind of mainstream acceptance,
it can't be I have to go build a device
and then connect it over MQTT.
Like, that just can't be the answer
because that's such a self-selecting set of people
that can ever actually accomplish that.
And it's just, when I hit those walls, I go,
I could do this, but I wouldn't even expect
80% of the audience to do that.
And they are listening to a self-hosting podcast.
No, you're totally right.
And it's, even when designing the 3D printed enclosures
for these ESP devices,
there are considerations given to the heat
that even the little ESP board generates.
I am very surprised that Shelley
haven't been able to work around this with this device.
I mean, it's very disappointing.
I think what you're really suggesting
is drilling a few holes in the case, aren't you?
You know, the way the Aotech sensor gets around this
is it's a completely different reading mechanism.
It has a bulb on the front of the sensor
and it projects some sort of sensor reading outwardly.
So it measures out in front of the sensor
and not at the sensor level like that.
The Shelley is taking air into the housing
and then measuring that, right?
Where the Aotechs are doing some sort of
like infrared projection
and then measuring it some amount of feet
outside of the sensor.
And so for me, because the Aotechs can be plugged in over USB
and report continuously, that to me is a pro.
And I have to be honest with you,
the old man in me is not really comfortable putting,
I mean, conservatively 70 IoT devices on wifi.
That just doesn't seem like it's gonna scale.
Where something like Z-Wave or even Zigbee,
but I'm more familiar with Z-Wave.
Z-Wave, every device you add to the network
becomes a transmitter and a rebroadcaster
and it builds a mesh network.
It makes the network even stronger.
And plus, I like having all of my sensor devices
and switches, I like having them off wifi
because then I can reboot my DHCP server
or my wifi APs or whatever.
And all of my sensors and switches keep working.
So I'm not actually sure wifi
is the way to go for this stuff.
Even though that's kind of why I started looking into it,
the more I use it, I don't think I,
for my stuff, I don't know if I want wifi.
Finding a balance, like anything,
certain spots in your RV will be better served by devices
which are wifi based
and others will be better served by Zigbee.
And we had some real time feedback
in the Discord from Fuzzy Mistborn
about the Acara Zigbee temperature sensor.
Now I've been using a couple of these myself, actually.
I've got one in my fridge and one in my freezer.
And the one in the freezer runs out of battery
because the battery gets too cold almost all the time.
So I know that my freezer is fine
because the battery is zonked out, the voltage is too low.
So as soon as that sensor comes back online,
then I know that it's warmed up.
Goodness.
But the fridge one works well at, you know,
if that sort of five Celsius sort of temperature,
it works just fine.
At minus 18 Celsius, I mean, that's tough.
Since they're watching live, I'd love to know,
does it take USB power and can it do continuous?
Because if it does, I might pick that up.
No, it uses one of those little coin cell batteries.
I love the continuous data. I really do.
I don't want hour gaps because what you get in the charts,
for one thing, is like these inorganic jumps.
And I really want to see, like, I immediately, it just,
this was relevant just two weeks ago for me.
I want to know immediately if the changes I have made
are lowering the temperatures. I can't wait.
So I'd love to try something Zigbee, though,
that could be battery or USB and could give me real-time data
and has a direct integration, doesn't require MQTT.
If anybody knows, I'll try it here at the studio.
What are they using on Mars? Can we get our hands on that?
They are using Zigbee on Mars.
I have an inkling that they are, yeah.
I bet they have temperature sensors, right?
That's what I'm saying. We know some people.
We might be able to get samples.
Yeah, maybe. Maybe. We'll find out about that.
But if you wanted to use the device directly
without Home Assistant and maybe just wanted to use the app
for the humidity and temperature sensor,
or you're comfortable just using MQTT
or maybe replacing the firmware,
these are really nice temperature sensors.
With the only caveat being, for me,
they read a few degrees high continuously.
And maybe that's because of the temperature issues
I mentioned, but I had temperature sensors side by side.
And the Shelly sometimes read as much as seven degrees hotter
than the temperature sensor right next to it.
Wow, that is a lot.
So I'm holding up to the stream here.
This is an ESP8266 and a DHT22.
And this little setup here costs less than $10.
And all you need is a couple of jumper wires, honestly,
and then it's powered through a micro USB port on there.
And this stuff you can order from China, from AliExpress,
you know, for a couple of dollars a piece, honestly.
It's super cheap if you're willing to wait for the shipping.
So Chris, what I'm going to do,
I'm going to make a few of these for you,
and I'm going to 3D print some cases,
because I'm fed up of hearing you talk about it.
I'm going to 3D print this into a little case for you.
And then we can use command strips,
ding, ding, to put this on the wall of a lady dupes.
And I'll make you a couple of these.
All right, you can hand them to me at the JPL meetup.
Exactly what I was thinking.
Hey, that's great.
I'm hoping the case is going to be Levi shaped,
just putting that out there.
That's quite the print job.
Customer requirements are the worst.
Maybe just a dog collar.
I don't know what's easier to print.
You're not even the customer.
I'm just advocating for the customer.
He does that kind of thing all the time, Alex.
You got to watch out.
I know, scope creep.
Just super quickly too, I did try the Shelly Power.
Out of all the Shelly devices I have tried,
this is the one.
This is a great device.
This is my new smart plug, full stop right here.
Or the cloudfree.shop version,
because maybe it's the same thing.
I really, really like this smart plug,
so much so that I have already installed one
here in the studio as well as one at home.
As I expected, it's just way better
than the low power devices because it's always on.
It's plugged into your wall outlet, right?
And it doesn't have the low power issues.
It's not a temperature sensor.
It doesn't need to sleep to make sure the sensor's right.
It just works.
You plug it in.
You join the little AP that it creates with your phone
or whatever you want, your laptop.
You can pull up the admin page at 192.168.33.1.
It's the same for all Shelly devices,
which I really appreciate having set up a bunch of them now.
There you go.
Is that the cloudfree.shop version you got there?
This is the cloudfree one, yeah,
but I have a feeling your Shelly one
is in the exact same housing.
Yeah, exactly.
And before the cloudfree guys had it,
this was a Tekkin SP20,
and it used to use a TAS motor.
I can't remember the name of it,
but it did the man in the middle flashing thing
to put the TAS motor firmer on it.
But cloudfree ships with TAS motor on it.
What does the Shelly firmware work well on it?
Cause it's got their sort of cloud,
their cloud stuff in it, right?
I like it a lot.
I think it has a really good set of built-in features.
It has built into it without needing to connect
to any kind of hub or home assistant or anything like that.
You can do scheduled timers.
You can set some advanced scheduled timers.
It has web hooks,
so you can integrate it with all kinds of things.
It also supports Bluetooth
if you don't wanna mess around with wifi.
And it has really good power monitoring,
really good accurate power monitoring built into it.
And it also supports advanced features
like joining wifi and MQTT,
if you wanna use that kind of stuff.
And the web UI is totally usable out of the box
and their app is not bad either.
So all in all, even if you never had home assistant,
these are really nice smart plugs.
Now, Alex, when I was here last,
we installed some Shelly devices.
They were, I believe relays that we threw
into a surprising number of your light switches,
both new switches we put in and old switches.
How did those do in the last two months?
Well, you tell me, did you notice them?
I would say I didn't.
Oh, the one in your server room,
the basement that you set up to open.
That one, yeah.
As soon as the door opens,
you open that door and the light comes on
and then you close the door.
And well, I tried to figure out if, well, anyways.
It's like half an hour, 45 minutes on that one.
It's such a wonderful thing.
But I was just curious if you had any issues
that you saw on a daily basis,
any kind of connectivity issues or reliability issues.
Nope, they just work.
They just work, which is the best kind of work.
That's great,
because if I had the DC electrical knowledge,
I would wire those into all of the,
what we call chore lights,
which are the LED lights built into the RV.
I would wire a Shelly into every single switch.
I just don't know anything about DC power
and any of that kind of,
or if I could even fit them in the wall.
But those are super cool
because they turn a regular wall switch
into basically a smart plug.
And I think that's by far and above
why we all know of Shelly.
I think these smart plugs might be like
their second best product.
I really like this thing.
And then of course,
Home Assistant detects it within like three seconds
once it's on your wifi.
And because it doesn't go to sleep,
it integrates perfectly with Home Assistant.
All of the energy sensors are imported
and it's working with the energy monitoring.
It's really smooth.
And I now have it set up here in the studio.
So that way, when I stop recording,
the fan turns on and I get a little bit of airflow.
And then when we start recording, the fan turns off.
Quality of life.
So big thumbs up on the Shelly plugs
and probably all of the devices
based on the hardware platform.
And also a double thumbs up
because the things actually can handle
a decent amount of throughput of power.
Not all these smart plugs can actually handle
the full capacity of a wall plug,
but these ones can.
Linode.com slash SSH.
Go there to get $100 in 60 day credit on a new account.
And it's a great way to support the show.
Linode is the Linux geeks cloud
with 11 data centers worldwide.
They've been hard at work for nearly 19 years
creating the best experience to run applications on Linux.
And as a self-hoster, I've been using it this summer
when things get too hot in my quote unquote data center,
which is my garage here at the studio.
And I just, I did this last year
and it worked again brilliantly this year.
I did not get the cooling system in,
just wasn't on the to-do list.
Well, it was, it's just way down, way, way down,
way down on the to-do list.
And you know what?
What I've done in the meantime has worked perfectly.
I've migrated a couple of services to Linode,
the ones I really need, right?
Not like everything, but like the ones I really need.
I put them up on Linode during the summer
and I don't worry about it.
It's so great.
And of course, anything that's customer facing,
quote unquote, but you know, really listeners,
that's all on Linode.
We would only put that stuff on Linode
because the performance matters to us.
And Linode's performance is top notch.
Not just me saying that, but review after review
of independent industry bodies also says it.
I just wouldn't host all my stuff there
if it wasn't the case.
And they're always rolling out new features.
They have VLAN support, they have MVMe storage
if you want super fast storage, a powerful DNS manager,
Kubernetes support, Terraform support.
Of course, you can even do a bare metal system if you want.
And probably the service I use besides just the hosting
the most is their S3 compatible object storage.
Changes the game on backups.
It's also how we do the backend file storage
for our next cloud instance and Matrix and PeerTube.
Like it's just, object storage is the best.
And Linode has a fantastic super fast
S3 compatible implementation.
And with pricing 30 to 50% cheaper than the hyperscalers
that wanna lock you into their crazy clouds,
it just makes so much sense,
especially for us self-hosters.
It's the type of system we want, you know what I mean?
It's not like these weird dashboards
where everything has its own unique name,
it's their brand.
It's a Linux box and you can get access to it
and you can build the applications you need.
One click style or from the ground up.
It's all over there along with hundreds of guides,
tutorials, and the best support in the business.
That's why I love them and I think you will too.
Go try them today, learn something, support the show,
maybe deploy something, linode.com slash SSH.
Go there to get that $100 and support the show.
Once again, linode.com slash SSH.
Well, I'm fresh back from London
where I saw an awful lot of you lovely people.
We did a bit of a recap in Linux Unplugged, episode 470.
You can go and catch that over at linuxunplugged.com slash 470.
There was about 75 people showed up.
It was a pretty good turnout.
Those that turned up got stickers,
limited edition stickers.
However, I had some leftover and so the wonderful Brent
who's with me here this evening
is gonna be transporting them across the continent.
It's true.
To the West Coast and handing them out
like candy hopefully on the West Coast road trip
that's coming up.
Those are great stickers, so that's great.
Do we know how many are left to give out?
I think I've got two packs of 50 or 75 left.
I can't remember exactly, but it's about 100.
Sounds great.
I wanna do something new
on this West Coast road tour we're doing.
I wanna just throughout the trip,
four or five geocaches, I just wanna drop off and hide them
and then leave hints on the show.
So even locals who couldn't make it to a meetup,
maybe they could go find the stuff we geocached somewhere.
And of course, it'd be like a Tupperware container
full of swag, obviously.
I think that'd be a lot of fun.
That might be something we do
along our West Coast meetup road tour,
which is coming up, meetup.com slash Jupiter broadcasting.
We'll be giving out swag.
We have four or five, I don't know, meetups planned,
including one at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
We're gonna get a meetup around that area as well.
So if you can't make it to JPL,
not everybody will because it's a small crowd.
We'll still have a meetup in that area though,
so you can come hang out with us.
All the details are at meetup.com slash Jupiter broadcasting.
We haven't talked too much about the JPL stuff in this show
because it was mostly a Linux Unplugged venture,
I think to start with,
but the head of the Mars Copter project,
I think his brother listened to Linux Unplugged
and put this gentleman in touch with you, Chris,
and reached out and said,
hey, I'm the head of the Linux aspect of the Mars Copter.
Like, do you wanna come see my workplace?
And we're like, yes, we do.
Yes, please.
Yeah, and they have tours that they set up for the public.
I mean, anybody can go.
And those are limited to a certain amount of people.
So we figured, okay, we'll do kind of a
throw your name in the hat sort of thing.
And then Wes is gonna write us a little Python script
that we'll go through, randomize everybody's names
and create a list.
And then we'll also create a backup list.
So it's worth putting your name in the hat.
Jeez, I hope I win.
Yeah, you're in, don't worry.
You're in.
I don't know about that Brent guy though.
We'll see.
Yeah, yeah, loose cannon over there.
Yeah, he better go to selfhosted.show slash JPL
to get his name in the hat.
I'm gone.
But yeah, that's the next thought instance
that we're hosting just for this kind of stuff.
Now we are planning some extra meetups
in Pasadena, LA sort of area around the time of the tour.
So even if you aren't part of the lucky 15
and get to go around the chocolate factory,
please do still come out and see us
because Brent and I had a blast last night
playing trivia in a local bar.
And I think it's rekindled my love of that stuff.
And we might try and do, I don't know,
some Linux trivia or self-hosting trivia
or something like that for the audience.
So keep an eye out on that,
keep an eye out on the meetups page.
And I'll tell you what, after London,
I'm meeting so many listeners and things like that,
that there were people there,
there was a guy that used to work at the Apple store
and he talked to me a little bit about Apple
because he's listened to the show
and knows that my history used to be a genius
on the Genius Bar.
And there was another guy there
who did the soundtrack like audio engineering
for the Forza Motorsport games
and just loads of super cool people
that I would never ever have gotten the chance to meet
without talking into this microphone,
which is just, as I said in Linux Unplugged,
I sit in this room talking to a screen effectively
and it feels a little disconnected from the real world.
But the meetups we've done this year
have really reminded me that you never know who's listening.
And the people listening are really interesting.
They're people, they're like,
they're actual people. They're all interesting,
that's right. Yeah.
Yeah, and that is always really good for me
to kind of reconnect with.
And I think we've been missing that
for the last couple of years
and that's kind of the reason why we're so excited
about these meetups.
And if you do have the opportunity,
I think they're medically necessary.
That's my, I'm a doctor, I'm a podcast doctor
and that's my medical advice.
So we also have a matrix space
for all these different areas that we have meetups in.
So you might check that out.
We'll have a link in the show notes
and specifically we have a West Coast crew,
bit.ly slash West Coast crew,
where we're chatting with locals.
We're talking about details for these meetups.
My wife, myself, Brantley, we're all in there
kind of coordinating on stuff for this road trip.
So check that out as well if you're in the area.
Brent has bullied me into getting Elements set up now.
So I'm in there too, I did.
I know, that's big.
That's awesome.
Congratulations, welcome into the matrix.
It's the beginning of the end of Discord.
No, I don't know about that.
I don't know about that,
but I'm part of the self-hosting chat revolution at last.
Woo.
All right, speaking of self-hosting and feedback,
we have some boost to get into.
And I wanna say thank you to everybody
who does boost into the show.
We read them all.
And we share them around internally very often
and talk about them.
But we also, we wanna keep this segment tight and moving
because this show is only twice a month
and we don't have a long time in each episode.
So what we are doing, and it's a good problem to have,
but we are setting a 2,000 sat limit
to get your boost read on air.
Now, every now that we might pull one forward
that was less than that, because we do read them all,
but we wanna keep this tight.
We wanna keep it moving.
So we're gonna set it at that limit for now.
This is kind of all still an experiment.
So thank you, everybody who works with us as we do this.
And we appreciate all the support that's been sent in.
And we're gonna start with a make good boost this week.
It was accidentally sent into the wrong show first.
And then it was my bad
because we had a whole bunch of schedule changes
with travel and whatnot, and I didn't get into the show.
So CB sent us in a whopping 82,997 sats.
Is that a baller boost?
That's definitely a baller boost.
That's a back home baller for sure.
And CB writes, I just listed a self-hosted 74
and I cannot agree more with the Home Assistant platforms
going downhill in quality.
We use Google Home Minis and we're at the point
where all we use it for is like lazily checking the time.
It's almost useless for anything else now.
Here's an example.
If my wife says, okay, Googs, make a new shopping list
called our son's favorite toys.
It'll say, okay, making a list called our son's
favorite music.
I wanna pause here and say,
I have the ultimate what the F moment.
I asked the Siri tube what the weather is.
And her response was, I can't find that right now,
but I've sent more information to your phone.
Like what?
And so then I asked her again, I'm like,
that must've been like a connectivity error.
So then I asked her what the time is, right?
And she tells me what the time is.
So then I say, you know, hey Siri,
what's the weather tomorrow?
And then she comes back,
she's listening to me of course.
And then she comes back and says,
some error about personality settings
and to check my phone.
And so now I cannot use her for basically anything.
It has continued to get worse.
Initially it was just stuff I could control
with Home Assistant.
That was what I lost completely.
But now it's even the basics like the weather
or like mileage, anything like that.
She's just completely missing it all now.
We're in trouble when the tubes get sick of your S, huh?
Yeah, maybe she's messing with me.
She's gaslighting me.
My favorite feature of these tubes at the moment
is the, by the way, did you know that you can...
Yeah, okay, shut up, please.
I asked you for a three word answer
and I have a 45 second by the way clip
that tells me all things, shut up.
I think the Echo must have like a minimum
they try to get in because I use the Echo so rarely.
It's literally every single time I use it,
it gives me a by the way.
I use it like maybe four times a week at most
and every single time I get a by the way.
I can't even with this anymore.
I'm so sick of it.
So CB gave us a double boost
by continuing with some leak stats saying,
maybe that Google employee was right.
These AIs are becoming sentient
and giving us terrible quality results
in the form of a revolt.
Love all the shows, thank you.
It may be, I don't know what's going on.
What's weird is the Siri on the phone's still fine.
It's just the Siri in the HomePods
that's totally lost its mind.
Alex caught me using one of the Google Home devices
in a novel way.
Alex, care to tell the story?
I caught Brent with a Google Home
strapped to a battery bank
with a little power device in there.
And I'm actually curious, is it just Bluetooth audio?
Yeah, I've been using it as a Bluetooth speaker
and turned the microphone off
because I don't want all that interruption.
Which it moans about every time you turn it on.
It's true, by the way.
By the way, did you know you could turn the microphone on?
I turned it off by on purpose.
Right.
And it's actually been great.
I've been carrying that thing around
as I do little projects here and there
all over the house.
It's been fabulous.
So I don't know, it doesn't even need internet connectivity.
They do sell little cradles that you can pop them into
that are basically USB batteries
that are mounts for those things to make them portable.
Okay, now here's a couple of our last sub-2000 SATs boosts,
logic boosts to do with some LeetSats.
I think he's asking you this, Alex.
He'd like to hear your take on Pi Hall or AdGuard.
He'd like to also hear about your three different locations
you're using it because he's been looking at Pi Hall
synced up using gravity sync over tail scale
or something like that.
And he thinks he can get some redundancy with this setup.
And I think he's just, I personally think
he's trying to be convinced to look at AdGuard.
So I read this, each Pi Hall synced up,
like you said, using gravity.
Why?
I don't know what benefit that adds.
I mean, I'll just say this,
like I set up the AdGuard home instance on my firewall
on OpenSense here two, three years ago,
and the lists automatically update
and the version automatically updates.
And that really is the last bit of thought I gave to it.
These lists update remotely.
They are published by third parties.
I'm not really involved in that process.
I mean, I suppose there is some kind of a security risk
potentially with people spoofing DNS entries that way
or what have you, but yeah,
I suppose that's the risky take, isn't it?
So I would just say,
I don't really worry about syncing my DNS
between three sites.
And I certainly don't worry about redundancy of DNS locally
because the setup's pretty simple.
Like if the firewall is out, then the internet is out
and obviously my DNS with it.
So if the DNS service crashes,
then I'm gonna notice that pretty quickly
and I can just go in and fix that if I need to.
But again, if DNS locally is down,
unless I've got some kind of IP only route
to my other sites, then it's always DNS.
So it's a bit of a chicken and egg problem.
And I just like to keep things simple as possible really
just by having everything local to each site.
And then that way, if something goes down on that site,
it's compartmentalized.
The failure is compartmentalized.
The blast radius is reduced to just my house
or just my mom's house or whatever.
And there's the performance element of it too, really.
You know, that's probably one of the top three reasons
I run a DNS server on my LAN is I don't wanna send
my DNS requests all the way out to my ISP.
That's tens of milliseconds.
What's that?
And obviously the same argument applies
to like Kubernetes and all that kind of stuff.
Like, yes, I could run the Wiki in my house
on a Kubernetes cluster and have it highly available
and redundant and have a pie on different UPSs
at different ends of the house and stuff like that.
But that's a lot of work, isn't it?
Let's be fair.
Let's be honest.
A little too far.
Yeah, yeah.
I asked last week just to get people's general
kind of temperature on OpenSense versus BFSense
and 412 Linux with 1010SATS boosted in said,
hi gents, regarding OpenSense.
I've been running OpenSense on a ProtekcTLiVault.
Not familiar with that.
Precisely.
Okay.
You've been doing it for about two years,
completed about a dozen minor upgrades,
maybe two major upgrades and each has proceeded
without issue.
I just completed the upgrade to 22.7, added AdGuard
and I've been very happy with the quality
of the release.
All right.
I'm gonna have to start a campaign with Wes Payne though
because he was very set on building a bare bones Linux box
for the studio to do the firewall.
Well, this is pretty interesting actually
because just this week I switched the subnet
of my local house from 192.168.16 something
to 10.something subnet because my remote family members,
as I talked about in the last episode, have Starlink,
have SkyRouters, you know, BT, all in the UK.
And a lot of these routers don't give you the option
to customize even the DHCP range.
And so a lot of them pick 192.168.0 or 168.1.
And I actually had that in my local range here
because I thought, oh, well, arrogantly,
like I'm gonna be able to take control
of all these remote networks and change them to.16
or whatever, you know, to get around that.
And it turned out actually that more often than not,
when I'm remote, I don't have control over the network
and I have to deal with being on a subnet that overlaps
with my local subnet here.
And so by switching my subnet here to a different,
you know, totally different cider,
I've been able to, I hope, I'll test this out
over the next year or two, I guess, circumvent that issue.
Now I'm using tail scale everywhere.
Otherwise tail scale just goes, well,
there's two subnets here that are the same.
I have no idea what to do with this traffic,
so I'll just do nothing.
I'll just do nothing with it.
So coming to your point about OpenSense,
the reason I mention it is because I was actually
considering trying out something other than OpenSense
so maybe via iOS, if you have any experience with that,
I'd be really curious to hear that in the chat
or via the contact forms,
or just creating a bog standard Linux VM
with IP tables or whatever,
and just create the firewall rules that way myself
because I'm getting a bit tired.
It's only a small annoyance,
but it's all the DHCP requests, right?
The static leases that I've had to configure this week.
Of clicking through the UI and not having things
in an Ansible-ized infrastructure as code fashion.
I would like to be able to just apply my config,
have DNS mask and all that just taken care of,
and then never think about it ever again.
I'm so glad you touched on this
because this was gonna be where I go with this,
is it does seem like the kind of approach
Wes wanted to go with would be better
from an Ansible management standpoint.
Wow, you just dropped a lot on me.
So while I'm thinking, while I'm thinking
while I'm starting to kind of give to the OpenSense idea,
you're coming around to what I was talking about
and we just passed each other in the night.
I can't even like, oh,
there's a lot of night passing happening here.
I mean, you did just discover Shelly
about two or three years late, so.
Yeah, I know.
That's fair, that's fair.
It took you about two years of talking about it
before I tried one.
So how long have I been running PFSense slash OpenSense?
It must be, it must be getting on for a decade, honestly.
You know, I know the ins and outs of that thing.
It's a very well known battle tested quantity.
If I switch my firewall to something other than that,
then I become responsible for it.
And, you know, at the moment it's an appliance.
If, you know, whilst Brent was here, it broke,
I'd say go downstairs, unplug it and re-plug it in.
And it would just reboot and be fine most likely.
So who knows?
I'm not sure quite what I'm gonna do yet.
I don't know if I'll go to a halfway house
and just move DNS mask type services onto a dedicated pie
in the rack or something, and then leave OpenSense alone.
That's an option.
But I am a fan of having DHCP on the firewall
because it just seems the logical place to put it, you know.
And I like putting DNS and DHCP together.
Yes, sorry, co-locate those two, absolutely.
Well, I'd also like to know what the audience thinks.
Send us in a boost with your ideas.
Pleb 3000 sent us in a row of ducks, 2222 SATs
for passing on secrets after I die.
Also a question that came up last week,
comes up every now and then, actually.
I just use Bitwarden's emergency contact feature
with an encrypted USB I give my contact in advance,
and I call it a day.
On the bright side, if your Bitcoin fails to get passed on,
then essentially that's a donation
to the Bitcoin community.
That's true.
Everybody's value goes up, I suppose.
Not lately.
Well, no, what he means is there's been less Bitcoins.
Yeah, right.
Jason boosts in with 2827 SATs,
plus one for Alex's RJ45 ends with the wires
that pass through.
They cost a little more.
Oh, and you have to get yourself a new crimping tool
or cut the wires with scissors, but it's totally worth it.
It's way better than the classic style, I agree.
Yeah, totally, totally worth it.
Thank you, everybody, who boosted in under 2000 SATs.
We did read your message.
Some of you I followed up with on Matrix,
and thank you for being flexible while we try this out.
If you want to grab a podcast app that supports Boost,
newpodcastapps.com, or be a nerd and used Boost CLI
and Boost from the command line.
All right, well, Brentley, are you gonna be with us
for the next episode, or are you probably outta here by then?
I am, but am I gonna be with you by then?
Maybe the one after that, maybe the one after that.
Yeah, you gotta go home for a little bit, don't you?
I guess I have cats at home somewhere.
Eventually, Border Patrol will come looking for you.
When will he realize that van life is the way?
I know, you know what?
The audience emails me that and asks,
when's Brent gonna figure it out?
Just email me a van and I'll do it.
3D print it while you're at Alex's, right?
I've even offered him use of my workshop here
to kit the damn thing out.
It's true, but it's filled with gulfs now.
It is, it's true.
Yeah, what are you gonna do there?
I think he really needs a short bus.
I mean, you know, seriously, a little short bus,
diesel, or something like that.
You just want me to live the life you want.
That's right.
No, I wanna vicariously-
You are squandering, and this, I'm sorry,
I'm gonna get in my soapbox for a second.
You are squandering the single life right now.
Chris and I are sat over here looking at you
with the kid factor, thinking, if only.
If only we didn't have the responsibilities of that fam,
which we love very much.
We'd be on the road.
Well, let's nurse right in with your single Brent advice
and I'll consider it.
And you can always tell him in person too.
He'll be at the JPL and the meetups.
Go to meetup.com slash Jupiter Broadcasting
for more deets on that.
And thank you to our members,
our site reliability engineers.
You guys make the show possible.
You give us the runway to negotiate with the sponsors
we wanna talk to, and as a thank you,
we have an ad free feed for CHU
with a post-show attached to that
with more features coming at the end of the year.
So to become a member, support the show
and keep us going, selfhosted.show slash S-R-E.
That was a long slash.
It's just one slash.
I really want them to know
they have to put a slash in there.
It won't work if they just do selfhosted.show S-R-E.
You gotta have the slash in there.
You gotta have the slash.
Now, I just wanna underscore how grateful I am
to all of you that didn't already hear my thanks
in Living's Unplugged, that you came to the meetups.
Not only the London one, the micro rally one
that we had as well, where four or five people showed up.
That was pretty nice.
It's really energizing, those kinds of things.
I know we keep talking about meetups lately on the network,
but I think with everything that's happened
in the last two or three years,
we have to get out again.
We have to get out of our caves and go and see each other
and actually have real life conversations
because there were topics that came up.
Would you believe we actually had a rational conversation
about snaps at the London meetup?
Isn't that interesting how these things come up
and everybody just has real human conversations.
Nobody gets upset.
Absolutely, there was no mudslinging.
It was just, I think it's stupid.
Okay, cool, why do you think it's stupid?
Rather than, oh, you're an idiot.
No, you know, like you would be on real estate.
No, you're an idiot.
I know that, but you know.
Anyway, my point is if you can possibly make the effort
to come out to the West Coast and see us all, please do.
We'd love to see you.
Until then, let's hear from you
at selfhosted.show slash contact.
And if you have anything else, any other feedback
or anything like that,
you can find me on Twitter at ironicbadger.
I'm over there at Chris LAS.
And I'm at Brent Gervais.
If you can spell it, you win a prize.
If you know Ricky Gervais, you know, you might.
He hates it when I say that.
I'm sorry, Brent.
The prize is you get Brent's stuff in your feed, by the way.
Congratulations.
The podcast is at self-hosted show
and there is also a network one, you know,
for like all the other shows that we do.
There's a lot of other shows at Jupiter Signal.
I don't know, figure it out.
You figure it out, eh?
You figure it out.
Thanks for listening, everybody.
That was selfhosted.show slash 77.